Talk about executing remote scripts.
So this is something that you'll see
in deno a lot, and it's really weird.
And it's one of the things that really
put me off about it because it's
sort of the way that they
want you to run scripts.
So this literally means that you can just
call a script and execute it with a URL.
And this is why if you
go to the deno docs,
they don't actually have you write
hello world like we just did,
they actually have you call
it from a remote file.
Which just is, that's such
a bizarre thing to me to do and
I had a really hard time with it.
But let's do it so that we can see.
So there is a script that we can run here.
I'm just gonna paste this into
the browser so we can look at it first.
So if we go here, in our browser,
we actually see the code.
But if we were to curl this,
I think we can just curl it like this.
What we actually get back is
the code not the web page.
And what they're doing there is they're
looking at the browser accepts header to
know whether or not to give you a web
page, or whether or not to give you code.
But what this means is that you can
execute this file directly from deno and
so you can just do it.
And let's clear this out a little bit.
You can do deno run,
and then like this and
again it checks it and
then it says welcome to deno and
you get the cute dinosaur or denosore.
But let's talk about where deno puts these
remote dependencies cuz they're kind of
in a different spot.
So again, let's go to the denocache.
And let me just double check to make sure
that I'm, we're headed to the right place.
And what we want to do now, is look at our
deps folder because this is a dependency.
So if we go to deps now, and we look
inside of that, we see an https and
inside of that, there's a couple of
different ones because I've been
working on some other stuff but
this deno.land, right?
It's pulling off the domain and
using that as the name of the folder.
So let's move into deno.land.
And inside of that,
where there's a lot of folder files.
Let's take a look at them.
So these are all of the different
files that have been pulled down.
And if we look at them, then eventually
if we look at enough of them,
we'll find the one,
cuz I've been doing a lot with deno,
we'll find that actual hello world file.
But it downloads it here and
then it creates that familiar hash,
in all of this different metadata so
that it can track dependencies.
When we get to dependencies
later on in this course,
this is where deno is going to put them
is inside of this folder called deps.
So you don't have a node modules folder in
deno, you have a deps folder that's inside
a cache, which is something that
you're not really aware of, right?
So the dependencies are still there.
I don't think it's fair to say,
is it fair to say that you have no
node modules folder in your project?
It's just they're moved somewhere else
on your system to a central place.
Yeah, I think that's what we wanted to
say about bad executing remote files.
Okay.
Let's talk about the Deno object
because that's another something
that's a little bit strange for deno,
and I didn't understand this at first.
In a browser,
you have a top level object in a browser.
It's called the window object.
And the window object is just there.
You don't have to do anything to get it.
It's just exists.
Deno has the same thing.
But it's called the deno object.
And much of the functionality that you
might expect to find in particular node
modules is in the deno object.
So in VS code, let's come back here.
Let's go to our app.ts file.
And let's just look at that object.
So if we look at it, and look at all
the different methods that are available,
there are things like MakeTempDir and
MakeTempDirsync.
If you've done node,
this stuff looks familiar, or
this this reading directories
is here on this object.
Reading files, writing files is down here.
The standard out writing,
to standard out is here.
So a lot of IO operations are found
directly on this deno object.
In addition, you can get things
like the args that were passed in.
And so what's confusing for me about
this is that deno also has a standard
library and I wasn't,
I'm never sure whether or
not the thing that I need is on the deno
object or in the standard library.
And so my general guidance on this is
that before you go look at deno standard
library, which we haven't looked at yet,
it's sort of something we have to install.
It's a dependency, we have to use.
Look on the deno object, because it's
probably there, especially if it's
something simple like reading and
writing files, you can find it here.
Working with environment variables,
finding the current directory
most of that's here.
Let's talk about, for a minute about how
deno replaces some concepts in node that
you might already know.
Deno has replaces some concepts.
So for
instance node has this process object.
There is no process object in deno.
Instead you would use the deno object and
the replacements there in.
And so, for instance in node,
we can pass args on
the command line and
read them with the argv object.
And so it's do, let's take a look at
what that looks like in a node app.
So in this app.js file,
what I'm gonna do here is I'm just
gonna log out console dot log process.
Process.argsv, I think it's argv.
So you can see what node
actually does here, and
then let's run this with the collapse
this, collapse the sidebar.
So let's do node app.js.
And you can see that it's actually
logging out all of the arguments here,
including the path to node,
the path to this file.
And if we were to pass in other arguments
like 1, 2, 3, then we'd get those as well.
Deno does something similar,
it has an args object here.
So let's do this in the app.ts file,
so we can see how this works.
So let's just console.log,
our deno.args.
And then let's pass them args.
So deno run app.ts 1 2 3, okay?
And we get the same kind of thing only
we're not getting the full path to
node and the file as well.
But this is the replacement for the args,
if you're used to using that in node.
Another thing you may be used to
using is the env object in node,
where we can pass in environment
variables to node and then read them in.
We use this a lot for determining
whether or not we're in development, or
production, or passing and
things like connection strings.
Deno doesn't have again
the process objects.
So how do we actually pass
in environment variables?
Well in deno, what we have instead is,
let's call it take this out,
we have Deno.env.
And then you actually have to ask for
the variable that you want.
The way that this looks in
node is quite different.
So let's just say we're looking for
a variable called DEVELOPMENT,
which we're not passing in.
Normally, in node what you'd do is
you'd look for process.env.DEVELOPMENT.
It comes as an actual part of the object.
In Deno it does not.
You actually have to get
it like it's a string.
So let's run this.
Let me clear out the terminal.
So let's do deno run app.ts and
then we're not passing anything in.
So a couple of different
things have happened here.
[LAUGH] So
first of all we through an air and
it tells us that the permission
has been denied.
So this is we're going to
talk more about permissions.
But this is really your first introduction
to secure by default, which is that deno's
not gonna let you do much of anything
without you giving it permission to do so.
So let's try this again.
So let's do deno run app.ts.
But before we specify,
we have to say allow env,
which allows it to read
environment variables.
And then we get undefined, if we were to
pass in like this development equals true,
then it should return true and it does.
So that's just your replacement for
the process.env in node and
what that looks like
when you do it in deno.
Another one that you may be familiar
with a node that you might use a lot is
the dirname constant.
by In node, the dirname constant tells you
the full path of the current directory.
In deno this constant
doesn't exist it's not there.
And so if you're gonna have to use
this current working directory method,
which gives you the same value.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's just come here and
on the deno object,
we'll do deno.currentworkingdirectory
which is a function.
And then let's try and
run this again, deno run app.ts,
and look at that, permission denied.
Like I said, you're not allowed
to do much of anything in deno,
without giving it permission.
So lets try that again, and it tells you
it says run again with allow-read flag,
so we'll just say allow-read,
deno run, we'll see, oops.
Allow-read app.ts and
then it gives us the full path, right?
And if you remember when we were
looking at my gen files from deno,
it put it in this folder structure here.
Which is what we have on my machine.
So that's your replacement for
dirname in deno,
which you'll probably use a lot
is the current working directory.
There's a lot more on the deno object
than what we've just gone over there.
But what I'm just trying to show you is
that things that I think that you'll use
the most often are the concepts in node
that you already know that you might
be looking to replace,
like, how do I do this?
I knew how to do it before,
how do I do it now?